The sponsor of my today speach is the GRANDE juice.

I've discovered for myself this juice recently in the grossary store I always buy food.

It's one of the popular if not the most popular juice there. As soon it appears there it dissapears from 
  the shelves immediately.

I drink it to make food more tasty. Not every food I eat is tasty. It's healthy, but not tasty. This is 
  what helps me to make my food more tasty as it is.

It's sugar free and I encourage you to try it. This is for you.


You're great teacher, amazing person and wonderful girl!

I'm such type of a person who loves to share with others the things I want to tell them. It's very important.
The best parallel I can create here is that when I'm working, I need by managers estimate me, tell me what they
really think about me, about my work. It helps me to go further with them, it motivates me to fight for them
and to find new motivation to work with them.

I strongly believe, that such type of things can just lives in a good way.

This is why I'm doing it.

So, great teacher, Kate. I want to thank you for everything you've done for me during the last half of a year.
And it's huge. The level of my confidence is higher, because I definitely became better in this English stuff.

I love to visit your lessons not only to get an additional knowledge, which is one of the main purposes, ofcourse, but
just to look at how you work. The way how you split the lesson on different parts and logically connect them together,
the way you can handle communication with the group during the whole 1 hour lesson is amazing.

So, amazing person and wonderful girl. I want to thank you for who you're, who your personality. It's obvious that
you worked hard to become who you are now. You're very smart, reasonable, confident and thoughtful person. I appriciate
opportunity to spend time with you.

I have a secret. I have my own nomination. We can call it Kirill's nomination. Every year I try to find the most bright,
unique person. And I want to congrat you - you're such type of person this year. This is the prize and the New Year present
at the same time.

One more time, thank you Kate for who you are and what you do. You are great, amazing, wonderful.
